python/paddle/fluid/contrib/int8_inference/README.md, before:

# Offline INT8 Calibration Tool

PaddlePaddle supports offline INT8 calibration to accelerate the inference speed. In this document, we provide the instructions on how to enable INT8 calibration and show the ResNet-50 and MobileNet-V1 results in accuracy.

## 0. Prerequisite
You need to install at least PaddlePaddle-1.3 python package `pip install paddlepaddle==1.3`.

## 1. How to generate INT8 model
You can refer to the unit test in [test_calibration.py](../tests/test_calibration.py). Basically, there are three steps:
* Construct calibration object.

```python
calibrator = int8_utility.Calibrator( # Step 1
    program=infer_program, # required, FP32 program
    pretrained_model=model_path, # required, FP32 pretrained model
    algo=algo, # required, calibration algorithm; default is max, the alternative is KL (Kullback–Leibler divergence)
    exe=exe, # required, executor
    output=int8_model, # required, INT8 model
    feed_var_names=feed_dict, # required, feed dict
    fetch_list=fetch_targets) # required, fetch targets
```

* Call the calibrator.sample_data() after executor run.
```python
_, acc1, _ = exe.run(
    program,
    feed={feed_dict[0]: image,
          feed_dict[1]: label},
    fetch_list=fetch_targets)

calibrator.sample_data() # Step 2
```

* Call the calibrator.save_int8_model() after sampling over specified iterations (e.g., iterations = 50)
```python
calibrator.save_int8_model() # Step 3
```

## 2. How to run INT8 model
You can load INT8 model by load_inference_model [API](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/Paddle/blob/8b50ad80ff6934512d3959947ac1e71ea3fb9ea3/python/paddle/fluid/io.py#L991) and run INT8 inference similar as [FP32](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/models/blob/develop/fluid/PaddleCV/object_detection/eval.py "FP32").

```python
[infer_program, feed_dict,
    fetch_targets] = fluid.io.load_inference_model(model_path, exe)
```

## 3. Result
We provide the results of accuracy and performance measured on Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6271 single core.

| Model  | Dataset  | FP32 Accuracy  | INT8 Accuracy  | Accuracy Diff  |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| ResNet-50  | Full ImageNet Val  |  76.63%  | 76.23%  | 0.40% |
| MobileNet-V1 | Full ImageNet Val  | 70.78%  | 70.47%  | 0.31%  |

| Model  | Dataset  | FP32 Throughput(images/second)  | INT8 Throughput(images/second)  |  Ratio(INT8/FP32)  |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| ResNet-50  | Full ImageNet Val  |  11.54  | 32.2  | 2.79 |
| MobileNet-V1 | Full ImageNet Val  | 49.21  | 108.37  | 2.2  |

Please note that [full ImageNet validation dataset](http://www.image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/2012/nnoupb/ILSVRC2012_img_val.tar "full ImageNet validation dataset") can be downloaded by script `test_calibration.py` with `DATASET=full`. 

Notes:
* The accuracy measurement requires the model with `label`.
* The INT8 theoretical speedup is 4X on Intel® Xeon® Cascadelake Server (please refer to `providing a theoretical peak compute gain of 4x int8 OPS over fp32 OPS` in  [Reference](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/lower-numerical-precision-deep-learning-inference-and-training "Reference")).

## 4. How to reproduce the results
* Small dataset (Single core)
```bash
FLAGS_use_mkldnn=true python python/paddle/fluid/contrib/tests/test_calibration.py
```

* Full dataset (Single core)
```bash
FLAGS_use_mkldnn=true DATASET=full python python/paddle/fluid/contrib/tests/test_calibration.py
```

* Full dataset (Multi-core)
```bash
FLAGS_use_mkldnn=true KMP_BLOCKTIME=1 KMP_AFFINITY=granularity=fine,compact,1,0 OMP_NUM_THREADS=20 taskset -c 0-19 DATASET=full python python/paddle/fluid/contrib/tests/test_calibration.py
```

Commit message:

Modify tables and example command test=release/1.3

python/paddle/fluid/contrib/int8_inference/README.md, after:

# Offline INT8 Calibration Tool

PaddlePaddle supports offline INT8 calibration to accelerate the inference speed. In this document, we provide the instructions on how to enable INT8 calibration and show the ResNet-50 and MobileNet-V1 results in accuracy.

## 0. Prerequisite
You need to install at least PaddlePaddle-1.3 python package `pip install paddlepaddle==1.3`.

## 1. How to generate INT8 model
You can refer to the unit test in [test_calibration.py](../tests/test_calibration.py). Basically, there are three steps:
* Construct calibration object.

```python
calibrator = int8_utility.Calibrator( # Step 1
    program=infer_program, # required, FP32 program
    pretrained_model=model_path, # required, FP32 pretrained model
    algo=algo, # required, calibration algorithm; default is max, the alternative is KL (Kullback–Leibler divergence)
    exe=exe, # required, executor
    output=int8_model, # required, INT8 model
    feed_var_names=feed_dict, # required, feed dict
    fetch_list=fetch_targets) # required, fetch targets
```

* Call the calibrator.sample_data() after executor run.
```python
_, acc1, _ = exe.run(
    program,
    feed={feed_dict[0]: image,
          feed_dict[1]: label},
    fetch_list=fetch_targets)

calibrator.sample_data() # Step 2
```

* Call the calibrator.save_int8_model() after sampling over specified iterations (e.g., iterations = 50)
```python
calibrator.save_int8_model() # Step 3
```

## 2. How to run INT8 model
You can load INT8 model by load_inference_model [API](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/Paddle/blob/8b50ad80ff6934512d3959947ac1e71ea3fb9ea3/python/paddle/fluid/io.py#L991) and run INT8 inference similar as [FP32](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/models/blob/develop/fluid/PaddleCV/object_detection/eval.py "FP32").

```python
[infer_program, feed_dict,
    fetch_targets] = fluid.io.load_inference_model(model_path, exe)
```

## 3. Result
We provide the results of accuracy and performance measured on Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6271 (single core).

**I. Top-1 Accuracy on Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6271**

| Model  | Dataset  | FP32 Accuracy  | INT8 Accuracy  | Accuracy Diff  |
| :------------: | :------------: | :------------: | :------------: | :------------: |
| ResNet-50  | Full ImageNet Val  |  76.63%  | 76.23%  | 0.40% |
| MobileNet-V1 | Full ImageNet Val  | 70.78%  | 70.47%  | 0.31%  |

**II. Throughput on Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6271 (batch size 1 on single core)**

| Model  | Dataset  | FP32 Throughput  | INT8 Throughput  |  Ratio(INT8/FP32)  |
| :------------: | :------------: | :------------: | :------------: | :------------: |
| ResNet-50  | Full ImageNet Val  |  11.54 images/s | 32.2 images/s | 2.79 |
| MobileNet-V1 | Full ImageNet Val  | 49.21 images/s | 108.37 images/s | 2.2  |

Please note that [full ImageNet validation dataset](http://www.image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/2012/nnoupb/ILSVRC2012_img_val.tar "full ImageNet validation dataset") can be downloaded by script `test_calibration.py` with `DATASET=full`. 

Notes:
* The accuracy measurement requires the model with `label`.
* The INT8 theoretical speedup is 4X on Intel® Xeon® Cascadelake Server (please refer to `providing a theoretical peak compute gain of 4x int8 OPS over fp32 OPS` in  [Reference](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/lower-numerical-precision-deep-learning-inference-and-training "Reference")). However, the actual test results at the model level will be less than 4X, and in general the average is about 2X. In addition, the calculation library optimization of batch size 1 is not as good as the large batch size.

## 4. How to reproduce the results
* Small dataset (Single core)
```bash
FLAGS_use_mkldnn=true python python/paddle/fluid/contrib/tests/test_calibration.py
```

* Full dataset (Single core)
```bash
FLAGS_use_mkldnn=true DATASET=full python python/paddle/fluid/contrib/tests/test_calibration.py
```

* Full dataset (Multi-core)
```bash
FLAGS_use_mkldnn=true OMP_NUM_THREADS=20 DATASET=full python python/paddle/fluid/contrib/tests/test_calibration.py
```
> Notes: This is an example command with 20 cores by using set `OMP_NUM_THREADS` value.
